W-12992484 traffic-management-local-mode-gr (#329)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.5/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-included-traffic-management.adoc

= Traffic Management for Multiple Upstream Services Policy
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images
:keywords: route weight, traffic management, multiple upstream services

[%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
|===
>s| Policy Name | Traffic Management for Multiple Upstream Services
>s|Summary      | Manages API instance traffic to multiple upstream services from a single consumer endpoint
>s| First Flex Gateway version available | v1.5.0
.4+>.^s| Returned Status Codes | No return codes exist for this policy.
[%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
|
|===

[NOTE]
====

> The following document applies only to Flex Gateway running in Local Mode. To configure multiple upstream services for Flex Gateway running in Connected Mode, see xref:api-manager::create-instance-task-flex.adoc#traffic-management[Multiple Upstream Services for Flex Gateway Running in Connected Mode].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following information applies only to Flex Gateway running in Local Mode. To configure multiple upstream services for Flex Gateway running in Connected Mode, see xref:api-manager::create-instance-task-flex.adoc#traffic-management[Multiple Upstream Services for Flex Gateway Running in Connected Mode].
```

====

== Summary

Flex Gateway running in Local Mode supports API instances that expose multiple upstream services through a single consumer endpoint.

Flex Gateway manages request traffic by using different routes that can each direct traffic to multiple upstream services. Flex Gateway directs traffic to the routes by using the route order and the individual route's rules. 

> API instances with multiple upstream services in Local Mode are configured by using `PolicyBinding` YAML configuration resources. Each `route-weighted` resource defines a single a route. To add additional routes, you can add multiple `route-weighted` resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API instances with multiple upstream services in Local Mode are configured by using `PolicyBinding` YAML configuration resources. Each `route-weighted` resource defines a single route. To add additional routes, add multiple `route-weighted` resources.
```

Reviewer: Can you make this text more direct? "Configure API instances with multiple upstream services in Local Mode by..."

For a tutorial about how to publish an API instance with this policy applied, see xref:flex-local-publish-api-multiple-services.adoc[].

> NOTE: Deploying APIs with multiple upstream services does not affect the xref:policies-included-tls-outbound[Outbound Transport Layer Security Policy]. You can apply an Outbound TLS policy to each upstream service.

Reviewer: Should Policy be lower case?

> NOTE: The Traffic Management for Multiple Upstream Services Policy does not affect the xref:policies-included-tls-outbound[Outbound Transport Layer Security Policy]. You can still apply an Outbound TLS policy to each upstream service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Traffic Management for the Multiple Upstream Services Policy does not affect the xref:policies-included-tls-outbound[Outbound Transport Layer Security Policy]. You can apply an Outbound TLS policy to each upstream service.
```

== Configuring Policy Parameters

Refer to the following policy definition and table of parameters:

----
policyRef:
    name: route-weighted
  config:
    routes:
    - weight: <int> // REQUIRED, max_value=100, min_value=1
      destinationPath: <string> // OPTIONAL, default: "/"
      destinationRef: 
        name: <string> // REQUIRED
  rules:
   - path: <URI-regex> // OPTIONAL, Example: (.*)
     methods: <string> // OPTIONAL, Example: GET|POST
     headers:
       <header-name>: <regular-expresion> // OPTIONAL
     host: <string> // OPTIONAL
----

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
|===
| Parameter | Required or Optional | Default Value | Description

| `routes`
| Required
| Empty

> | An array of API upstream services +

Reviewer: General comment - In the interest of using less text, you don't need to use articles such as "a" or "the" as lead-ins to reference descriptions. So this would be "Array of API upstream services."

> | An array of API upstream services +

Reviewer: Also, if any list item in a list has a period, put periods after the text for each list item.

> | An array of API upstream services +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Array of API upstream services. +
```

At least one upstream is required.

| `routes.weight`
| Required
| N/A

> | The weight of total requests sent to this upstream service. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Weight of total requests sent to this upstream service. +
```

> | The weight of total requests sent to this upstream +

Reviewer: this upstream what?

>  The percentage of traffic sent to that upstream is the upstream's weight divided by total weight of all upstream. For example, if there are two upstream with weight `1`, each upstream receives 50% of the traffic to that route.

Reviewer: that upstream what? 
```suggestion
 The percentage of traffic sent to the upstream ???  is the upstream's weight divided by the total weight of all upstream ???. For example, if there are two upstream ??? with weight `1`, each upstream receives 50% of the traffic on that route.
```

>  The percentage of traffic sent to that upstream service is the upstream service's weight divided by total weight of all upstream services. For example, if there are two upstream services with weight `1`, each upstream service receives 50% of the traffic to that route.

Reviewer: Global - remove articles from reference descriptions.

| `routes.destinationPath`
| Required
| N/A
| Path of the upstream service

| `routes.destinationRef.name`
| Required
| N/A
| Name of the upstream service as defined in the `Service` configuration resource

| `rules`
| Optional
| Empty
| An array of rulesets for this route +
Each route can support multiple rulesets.

| `rules.path`
| Optional
| Empty

> | The request path the route can service +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| The request path that the route can service +
```

You can define only one “URI Template Regex" path for each ruleset. Only requests with the defined path are sent to this route.

| `rules.methods`
| Optional
| Empty

> | An array defining the types of request methods the route can service +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| An array that defines the types of request methods that the route can service +
```

> You can select multiple methods for each ruleset. Only requests that are one of the defined methods are sent to this route. Supported values are `GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, `PATCH`, `DELETE`, `OPTIONS`, `HEAD`, `TRACE`, `CONNECT`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can select multiple methods for each ruleset. Only requests that are one of the defined methods are sent to this route. Supported values are `GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, `PATCH`, `DELETE`, `OPTIONS`, `HEAD`, `TRACE`, and `CONNECT`.
```

| `rules.headers`
| Optional
| Empty

> | An array defining what headers and regular expression value must be present for this route to service the request +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| An array that defines what headers and regular expression value must be present for this route to service the request +
```

> Only requests that meet all the specified header requirements are sent to this route. Additional headers present in the request that are not specifically defined in the rules are ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only requests that meet all of the specified header requirements are sent to this route. Additional headers present in the request that are not specifically defined in the rules are ignored.
```

| `rules.host`
| Optional
| Empty

> | The request host URL the route can service +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| The request host URL that the route can service +
```

You can define only one host URL for each ruleset. Only requests made from the defined host are sent to this route.

|===

== How This Policy Works

> The Traffic Management policy works by directing traffic to different sets of upstream services by using different routes with defined rulesets and route order. 

Reviewer: Suggestion: The Traffic Management policy directs...

Reviewer: See my edits on the other PR for updating this wording.

> The Traffic Management policy directs traffic to different sets of upstream services by using different routes with defined rulesets and route order. 

Reviewer: I think I had a comment about this in the last PR I reviewed for you. It is better to have "route order" first here because otherwise it implies that each route has a route order defined.

> In the following diagram, different routes manage requests to flight information databases and to a customer service application. Route one has two upstream services defined, which direct 70% of requests to a stable database and 30% of requests to a beta database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following diagram, different routes manage requests to flight information databases and to a customer service application. Route one has two upstream services defined, which directs 70% of requests to a stable database and 30% of requests to a beta database.
```

> image:multiple-upstreams.png[Flex Gateway manages the traffic to multiple upstream]

Reviewer: upstream what?

> To achieve this configuration, you must bind two `route-weighted` resources to the exposed API instance. One `route-weighted` resource directs traffic to the flight information database, and the other `route-weighted` resource directs traffic to the customer service application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve this configuration, bind two `route-weighted` resources to the exposed API instance. One `route-weighted` resource directs traffic to the flight information database, and the other `route-weighted` resource directs traffic to the customer service application.
```

=== Upstream Services

You can use multiple upstream services in a single route to direct requests to similar services. For example, to test the performance of a new beta upstream service without sending all traffic to the new service, you can direct half of the traffic to a stable upstream service and half to the new upstream service. 

> What upstream service within the route each request is sent to is random and independent of any previous request. The `routes.weight` value defines the chance of a request being sent to a particular upstream service. The percentage of traffic sent to that upstream service is the upstream's `routes.weight` divided by total weight of all upstream services. For example, if there are two upstream services with weight `1`, each receives 50% of the traffic to that route. If the weight values were `1` and `3`, one route would receive 25% of traffic and the other 75%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What upstream service within the route each request is sent to is random and independent of any previous request. The `routes.weight` value defines the chance of a request being sent to a particular upstream service. The percentage of traffic sent to that upstream service is the upstream's `routes.weight` divided by the total weight of all upstream services. For example, if there are two upstream services with weight `1`, each receives 50% of the traffic to that route. If the weight values are `1` and `3`, one route would receive 25% of traffic and the other 75%.
```

> What upstream service within the route each request is sent to is random and independent of any previous request. The `routes.weight` value defines the chance of a request being sent to a particular upstream service. The percentage of traffic sent to that upstream service is the upstream's `routes.weight` divided by the total weight of all upstream services. For example, if there are two upstream services with weight `1`, each receives 50% of the traffic to that route. If the weight values are `1` and `3`, one route would receive 25% of traffic and the other 75%.

Reviewer: Suggestion: 
The upstream service within the route that each request is sent to...

Because any upstream service within a route can receive any request, all upstream services within the same route must adhere to the same API contract.

=== Route Rules

> You can direct requests to different routes by using route rules. Requests must only meet the rules for one of the rulesets in the route. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can direct requests to different routes by using route rules. Requests must meet the rules for one of the rulesets in the route. 
```

> Rulesets refer to any combination of the four rules: `path`, `method`, `headers`, `host`. You can use multiple rulesets to support different combinations of rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rulesets refer to any combination of the four rules: `path`, `method`, `headers`, and `host`. You can use multiple rulesets to support different combinations of rules.
```

All rules are optional. If a rule is not included in a ruleset, that rule is ignored. For example, not specifying a host means that the route can service any host if the request meets the other route rules. Not defining any rule means that the route can service every request.

=== Route Order

> In addition to route rules, you can direct requests to different routes by using policy ordering. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to using route rules, you can direct requests to different routes by using policy ordering. 
```

To order policies, see xref:policies-reorder.adoc[]

> Setting the policy order sets the order in which traffic is directed to the routes. Flex Gateway directs requests to the first route where the request meets one of the route rulesets. Therefore, route ordering is very important when a request may meet the route rules of multiple routes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting the policy order sets the order in which traffic is directed to the routes. Flex Gateway directs requests to the first route if the request meets one of the route rulesets. Therefore, route ordering is very important when a request can meet the route rules of multiple routes. 
```

====

== Summary

Flex Gateway running in Local Mode supports API instances that expose multiple upstream services through a single consumer endpoint.

Flex Gateway manages traffic by using different routes with defined rulesets and route order to direct traffic to different sets of upstream services. Each API instance supports multiple routes that can each direct traffic to multiple upstream services.

API instances with multiple upstream services in Local Mode are configured by using `PolicyBinding` YAML configuration resources. Each `route-weighted` resource defines a single a route. To add additional routes, you can add multiple `route-weighted` resources.

For a tutorial about how to publish an API instance with this policy applied, see xref:flex-local-publish-api-multiple-services.adoc[].

NOTE: The Traffic Management for Multiple Upstream Services Policy does not affect the xref:policies-included-tls-outbound[Outbound Transport Layer Security Policy]. You can still apply an Outbound TLS policy to each upstream service.

== Configuring Policy Parameters

Refer to the following policy definition and table of parameters:

----

> policyRef:

Reviewer 2: For consistency with other policy pages, this policy definition should specify data types and whether or not the parameter is required or optional. The definition shouldn't include example values.

Please see:
https://dev-docs-internal.kqa.msap.io/beta-flex-internal/gateway/1.5/policies-included-tls#configuring-policy-parameters

All rules are optional. Not defining a value for a ruleset means that aspect of the request not considered. For example, not specifying a host means that the route can service any host given the request meets the other rules in the ruleset. Not defining any rules means that the route can service every request.

=== Route Order

In addition to route rules, you can direct requests to different routes using policy ordering. 

To order policies, see xref:policies-reorder.adoc[]

Setting the policy order sets the order in which traffic is directed to the routes. Requests are sent to the first route where they meet the rule criteria for one of the rulesets. Therefore, route ordering is very important when a request may meet the route rules of multiple routes. 

For example, in a configuration where route one has the `GET` method defined as a rule and route two has no route rules defined, all `GET` requests are sent to route one and all other requests are sent to route two. If the route order was reversed and route one had no route rules, Flex Gateway would direct all requests to route one before any `GET` requests could reach route two.  

> == See Also

Reviewer 2: I wonder if these links to TLS pages should be included here? Are they related to the traffic management policy?
